Okay,
guys.
In the last lecture,
we had a look at how Excel deals with dates and times,
and you'll recall that dates are counted on from the first of January 1900 in whole days of
which appear before the decimal place on anything that remains after the decimal place will
be Cantil is a fraction of the day.
You'll also recall that time can't some from a day that didn't actually exist,
which was the zero with of January in the year 1900 as gonna be particularly useful when we
come to summing time.
Okay,
so let's quickly now,
add in the sum of all these this these worked hours just here.
Okay,
So if we drank over here,
we can see in the quick song that that totals 38 hours and 45 minutes,
which sounds about right.
And I'm sure it is right.
Eso You may think that the easiest way to just some those is just a click on the cell.
Billy hit the auto.
Some hit the answer on.
There you go.
And we can copy that answer all the way across.
But we get Absolutely,
perhaps wouldn't expect.
We get the answer of 14 hours and 45 minutes.
Whereas we look,
if we look at the 1st 2 entries there,
we can see already.
We've got to seven.
So there's are 14 hours on.
We've got another hour and 15 minutes sums up so immediately just from the two first cells
.
We know the answer should be 15 hours,
at least.
And then we need to.
And I ate and ate,
and one of the 7.5 hours.
Now,
the clue is in that zero with of January 1900 So I'm just gonna reference that sell for a
second man.
But on what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna change the format into Not was It was,
like certain.
Let's go groups have shown for my dee dee.
Uh mm.
Boy,
Why,
boy wide H h s s.
So there you go.
You can see that now that the results of summing all of these thes results just here,
the actual answer would be the first of January 1900 at two oclock in the afternoon.
And that's because while excels done is it started at midnight on Saturday,
Saturday,
the zero with of January counted forward 7.5 hours,
then seven hours and 45 minutes from 7 30 and added eight hours onto some of those 28 hours
onto the some of those three.
Until eventually,
it trips over from the zero with of January to the first of January.
And by the time you keep out in ALS these up you end up from midnight on the zeroth of
January 22 o'clock in the afternoon on the following day.
Okay,
so that's where you were getting answered.
The prints think shouldn't be correct.
Now there's a bunch of really complicated and unnecessary steps you can take to actually
address this,
but there's a much simpler solution.
Just go to your results.
Come to the format cells option from the right click and just before your H is in your
format.
Just type of square bracket at the beginning on close it with another square brackets at
the end.
It's okay on now.
You can see that the NC yet is actually 38 hours and 45 minutes,
which is exactly what it adds up to in the quick.
Some eso.
Let's just copy that across.
Let's just sense that the formatting.
And there you go.
That's a you successfully ad time together without tripping over into the following day.
Okay,
See you in the next lecture.